your brand name. Nothing's going to be
used more often or for longer than that
name. Design will change, message will
change, products will change, but that
name is there. What's a name that you
came up with that you had to fight super
hard for that the client just hated?
When we presented Sonos, it was rejected
because it's not entertainment-like. We
argued about that because I said, "This
is outside looking in, but I don't see
you as an entertainment company." Humans
do like to be comfortable. Part of our
job here is to help people to give the
confidence going bigger and being
uncomfortable. There's a quote that I
found of yours. If your team is
comfortable with the name, chances are
you don't have the name yet. We look for
polarization. We look for tension in a
team arguing about these things.
Polarization is a sign of strength in
the word. Most clients, they come to a
naming project absolutely believing with
full confidence that they're going to
know it when they see it. And the truth
is it almost never happens. Most people
listening to this are founders. A lot of
PMs on product teams. Let's say they
have a couple weeks got to come up with
a name. What should they do? Today my
guest is David Classic. David is the
founder of Lexicon branding which
pioneered the field of brand naming and
invented a few names that you may have
heard of including PowerBook, Pentium,
Blackberry, Swiffer, the Impossible
Burger. Also Versel and Windurf and Cap
Cut and Azure. In our conversation,
David opens up about the very specific
process that he and his team go through
to find winning names, including a
simple exercise that you can do with you
and your team to help you find the right
name in just a few weeks. We also talk
about why a great name is worth spending
your time on, why you won't know a great
name when you see it, and why you need
to feel uncomfortable about the name
first. Also, why big team brainstorms
don't ever lead to great names, the
stories behind names like Pentium and
Sonos and Versel and Windsurf. also such
interesting insights about the feeling
and energy of every letter of the
alphabet and so much more. This episode
is designed for anyone trying to figure
out a name for their product or company
and also just for anyone that's
interested in hearing the stories of how
some of the most iconic names came to
be. If you enjoy this podcast, don't
forget to subscribe and follow it in
your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
And if you become a paid subscriber of
my newsletter, you get a year free of a
bunch of amazing products, including
Bolt, Linear, Superhum, Notion,
Perplexity, Granola, and more. Check it
out at lennisnewsletter.com and click
bundle. With that, I bring you David
Classic.
This episode is brought to you by
WorkOS. If you're building a SAS app, at
some point your customers will start
asking for enterprise features like SML
authentication and skim provisioning.
That's where work OS comes in, making it
fast and painless to add enterprise
features to your app. Their APIs are
easy to understand so that you can ship
quickly and get back to building other
features. Today, hundreds of companies
are already powered by work OS,
including ones you probably know like
Versell, Web Flow, and Loom. Work OS
also recently acquired Warrant, the fine
grain authorization service. Warren's
product is based on a groundbreaking
authorization system called Zanzibar,
which was originally designed for Google
to power Google Docs and YouTube. This
enables fast authorization checks at
enormous scale while maintaining a
flexible model that can be adapted to
even the most complex use cases. If
you're currently looking to build
role-based access control or other
enterprise features like single signon,
skim, or user management, you should
consider work OS. It's a drop-in
replacement for Ozero and supports up to
1 million monthly active users for free.
Check it out at workos.com to learn
more. That's works.com.
Last year, 1.3% of the global GDP flowed
through Stripe. That's over 1.4
trillion. And driving that huge number
are the millions of businesses growing
more rapidly with Stripe. For industry
leaders like Forbes, Atlassian, OpenAI,
and Toyota, Stripe isn't just financial
software. It's a powerful partner that
simplifies how they move money, making
it as seamless and borderless as the
internet itself. For example, Herz
boosted its online payment authorization
rates by 4% after migrating to Stripe.
And imagine seeing a 23% lift in revenue
like Forbes did just 6 months after
switching to Stripe for subscription
management. Stripe has been leveraging
AI for the last decade to make its
product better at growing revenue for
all businesses from smarter checkouts to
fraud prevention and beyond. Join the
ranks of over half of the Fortune 100
companies that trust Stripe to drive
change. Learn more at stripe.com.
David, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Well, thank
you. I I'm excited about today. Um, and
looking forward to the conversation. Me,
too. These are actually my favorite
kinds of conversations because this
topic is so outside of my wheelhouse and
I know I'm just going to learn a ton.
Also, this is just something that every
founder and product builder has to think
about at some point and they have no
idea what they're doing and then their
name becomes so core to their identity.
It's thy the word they say more than any
other word and I feel like I've never
heard uh advice on how to do this well.
So, uh I'm really excited for this
conversation. I'm going to just dive
into a question and the question is just
what's a name that you came up with and
your team came up with that you had to
fight super hard for that the client
just hated and you ended up winning and
now is just such an obviously awesome
name that everyone loves. The story I
like to tell is a story of Sonos. uh one
a great client team. I worked with all
the founders, but at at the time they
were stuck on being in a brand name that
put them in the entertainment business.
And so when we presented Sonos, which
has many qualities to it, uh um they it
was rejected because it it doesn't have
enough sort of emotion to it. It's not
entertainmentlike. And
you know, we argued about that because I
said, I don't, this is outside looking
in, but I don't see you as an
entertainment company. You you makes
speakers that allow for the flow of
entertainment through these uh things.
And Sonos is about sound, but it had a
particular quality. It's it's called a
palendrome, right? So- which really
means that you can flip it and and it
means the same thing. In the case of
Sonos, you could all also turn it upside
down and it was essentially the same,
right? And so I that got them thinking
about this, but they were still has so I
left that meeting there in Santa Barbara
and I came back and they were still
struggling with it. And I went I got on
a plane, didn't even build them for
this, went back down to Santa Barbara
and met with them again and said,"I
really believe in this name and I think
it's the right for you." And at a
certain point, one of the founders, you
know, Bob McFarland, who who's just a
wonderful client, I could see him
thinking and he said, you know, we're
trying to name this for ourselves
and what we really should be doing is
naming it for the marketplace and the
customers. And you know, I think Sonos
now is the right name. And that and I
felt really good about that. and he
later wrote me a note about uh about how
I helped to do that and we and we use it
sometimes in credentials presentations
because it's such a nice note. But but
Sonos is something I'm so I'm so glad
that I had this internal energy to I got
to go down there and make a bid for
this. I don't I don't do that often by
the way, but I felt very strongly about
Sonos. I love Sonos. I love the name. I
have many Sonos products. How often does
this happen where the client is just no
this is not the name. and we have this
bigger vision, we have a whole other
idea of it. And then you convince them.
Well, it happens all the time. Um, and
and it's a little bit birectional,
right? We we
you know, there's
most clients and I can understand this,
right? They they come to a a naming
project, absolutely believing with full
confidence that they're going to know it
when they see it. And the truth is, it
almost never happens. I have now uh I
think this year we'll hit 4,000 projects
that we've completed. And it's
interesting, you know, we'll tell people
in a very polite way, you're not going
to know when you see it. But but I know
they don't believe me. Um and and even
when I I you could see them thinking
that you know what, he was right. I'm I
I I I really have to think about this. I
have to proc process it. And part of
that, part of why clients don't like the
bolder names, the more imaginative names
that we present is they are looking for
comfort. And that's the opposite that
what you want to do. And part of our our
our job here is to help people to give
the confidence that going bolder and
bigger is and and being uncomfortable.
There's a I use the expression there is
no power in comfort. uh not in the
marketplace.
Wow, there's so much here already. Okay,
so this idea of you're not gonna know it
when you see it is something that people
come in with thinking like once I see
it, it'll be obvious just why why is
that never almost never the case? Is it
because the name has to be something
that is uncomfortable? There's a lot of
psychology uh to this which ironically I
I I never even took a psychology class
in in college or or graduate school. But
the first element is humans do like to
be comfortable and one of the mechanisms
of comfort is if something's been
successful before then I feel like I can
approve it or select it. Uh this is why
um you know movies like uh Harry Potter
or even uh novels like Jack London's
Call of the Wild get rejected so many
times. I think Harry Potter was rejected
16 or 18 times and Jack London's a book
even more than that. I mean, think about
it. He's he's pitching a book and you
say, "What are you talking about here?
You're saying a dog becomes a wolf? I
I've never heard of anything like that."
So, so we really do
have to help people think about it's not
about the past. You're actually creating
the future. And
we really talk to people and emphasize
the idea this this isn't a name you're
creating. this we're creating an
experience for you. We're going to work
together
and we really our conversations always
start with talk to us about behave now
and how you want to behave in the future
as opposed to tell me about your
positioning, tell me about your values,
tell me about your mission. That that's
really kind of old thinking. It's very
traditional and that did work, you know,
25 or 30 years ago, but this is a far
more complex uh in interconnected world,
a digital world now that that that stuff
just doesn't create it doesn't create
names like Sonos or, you know, some of
our other credentials that we we
probably will talk about today. Yeah,
we're going to talk about just the
process you guys go through. So stay
tuned for that. But before we get to
that is there's another story you can
share that kind of shows this idea of
being bold. I I'll talk about
Microsoft's Azure. Um so when Microsoft
came to us they were pretty much stuck
uh and and Marcus does and in many ways
it to their credit a lot of things don't
need to be named. They don't need
trademarks. They don't need brand names.
They need descriptors. And so they came
to us to develop a name that started or
ended with cloud made sense to them
because it was a cloud service. And our
reaction was if you do that
uh you're going to be in an ocean of
other cloud this cloud that and you have
an opportunity as Microsoft here to to
really emerge as a leader in this. And
so,
you know, there was a discussion about,
okay, we'll we'll take a look at those,
but we'd like to see some cloud some
cloud names, okay? Which is easy to do,
by the way. Okay. And so, we did that
and we along the way we we uh
we came up with this word Azure, which
is, you know, another word for blue. And
so, there was a link to clouds, blue
sky, clouds, things like that. and but
we really presented it based on its
linguistic qualities. It's it's a noisy
word that Z in there starts with an A,
you know, and it ends in a nice smooth
flow. So, we we really strive to do
create names that are balanced. And in a
very busy competitive world, having some
a strong signal which is generated by
noise is a good thing. Uh the reaction
wasn't wasn't good. Uh you know, one of
the clients said, "That's just a dumb
idea." And I, you know, we this
remarks like that at this point after
these four decades, it sort of rolls off
my my back like a water off a duck is
what my grandmother would say. But but
um I I I think along the way um as we
talked about it, they began to warm up
to this. So now of course it's I don't
know hundred billion dollar brand or or
something like that. But that's an
example of I haven't seen that before.
I'm very comfortable with cloud. Cloud
is what it is. That's that's the you
know we're describing it but that's a
statement and I think that well I don't
think I know that's what I said in one
of the presentations is you don't want
to make a statement here. You want to
you want to start a story right? and and
an Azure is going to behave differently
in the marketplace than you know cloud
pro- which is I think one of the names
that we presented to them on the other
side at their request. I'm glad they
went with Azure. Let me actually ask
this question. I know you're biased but
just how important is a great name? Like
if you had a better name than a product
that was better than you, does that make
a big difference? Just anything you can
share there to help people see this is
the power of a great name. Let's look
just at the at the reality of this.
Your brand name, whether it's a product
name or a company name, nothing's going
to be used more often or for longer than
that name. Design will change, message
will change, products will change,
right? But that name is there. So I like
to talk about this idea of cumulative
advantage, right? over time as people
buy more and more of the product they
see it more often they that their bond
between you and that brand uh or them
and the brand I should say becomes
stronger and stronger. So you want that
name to to to stick in their mind to be
distinctive be because distinctiveness
is what creates that cumulative uh
advantage. The second thing is this
notion of what I call
asymmetric advantage. It makes perfect
sense and most people most clients agree
with this when we when we say this is
that even before you launch this brand.
Why not start with an advantage in the
marketplace and you won't get an
advantage if you're descriptive? If you
are cloud pro and there's 10 other cloud
services you're not going to stand out
in the marketplace. you won't have the
ability to create that necessarily that
cumulative advantage in the marketplace.
So, so those are those are my
two reasons why names are I think you
know the done right and we we do we do
talk about our mission is not creating
good names. A lot of people can do that.
Our mission is to create the right name
for for for clients and and because the
right name does deliver asymmetric
advantage and cumulative advantage for
you and that for us has almost unlimited
value. This is a great answer.
Essentially what you're saying is it's
not going to like necessarily make or
break you but it gives you an advantage.
A great name gives you an advantage
especially if you're just getting
started. The like you need every
advantage you can get. Exactly. And this
is maybe a little bit off off a tangent,
but one of the best books on marketing
I've ever read, which is not a book on
marketing. It's and you may have read it
along the way um in in college if you
studied any Greek or uh uh you know,
classics. It's called the Millian
Dialogues. And it's a dialogue.
It's will take anybody listening to this
maybe 25 minutes to read it between the
Athenians and the government of Milos.
And the Athenians
had decided that they needed that island
and they went and approached them very
nice way but that we want to take over
the island. Nothing will change. You'll
be taxed a little bit but we'll protect
you.
And the Athenians had thought every
aspect about how to take that island
before. So they by the time they got
there, they had created asymmetric
advantage in terms of ships and men and
all this other stuff. It's just there by
by the way in the book there's no
mention of marketing or brand strategy
or any of these things, but if you read
it, you begin to see that it's marketing
really is about asymmetric advantage.
And so why not start from the very
beginning with with an advantage? That's
the value of an aid. Let's dive into the
actual process you guys go through. And
I want to read uh a quote that GMA Roush
uh shared when I asked him about what it
was like working with you. He's the CEO
and co-founder of Verscell, which you
guys worked with. I definitely want to
hear that story, by the way. So he said,
"Before David, the ability to name
something was like charisma. You either
have it or you don't. It was so surreal
to watch his team distill it down to a
science."
So, let me just ask you, what does that
science look like? What are the steps to
coming up with an amazing name for your
product or company that you guys go
through? That's very nice of Germo. He
he is uh
a very impressive uh uh you know,
innovator in in this category and we
greatly enjoyed working with him. Well,
the our process is really I break it
down in three steps. Um first, we have
to identify then we invent and then we
implement. But so it's it's just three
things. It's not it's not rocket
science, but it does it's a combination
of creativity and discipline, right? And
obviously talented people and experience
in these things. So let's just kind of
go through those things in in the first
section of identify. It's really trying
to find out from the client.
Let's talk about behavior, right? So how
do you how are you behaving now and how
do you want to behave in the future,
right? That behavior is birectional. In
other words, the marketplace behaves
towards a versel. You know, that's the
name we created for GMO and they behave
towards the marketplace and and and
that's an important point because
everything you know buildings are
birectional even you know the look at a
building you behave differently towards
a temple than you or a church versus you
know a holiday in terms of how that
architecture states. So we focus on that
behavior is closely aligned for us with
experience. How do you want this brand
to the experience of this brand? Now
when we listen to those things, we begin
to think about, you know, rhythm of the
of the name. Um so something like Dani
has a lot of rhythm to it, right? It's
kind of calming, right? Uh and and so
we'll begin to extract things from that
discussion on experience. We will then
also as part of this first phase look at
the competition.
We call that developing a landscape and
we're looking for what are the words you
know the what are the brand names first
and then what language are they using in
this space. So so because we want to be
we have to be distinctive. If a brand
name isn't distinctive you lose right
then you're imitating and that's a form
of suicide. I think you know that's a
famous quote from some I think the
president of PNG you know 50 years ago
or something like that. So so that's
that first phase which allows us to
create what we call a creative framework
and we don't even use the word
objectives here because that gets too
logical. We we actually framework for us
is a metaphor for a window for us and
our teams and our linguist to travel
through to to kind of open things up so
that we're not coming back with a narrow
list of names. We're coming back with
names that have depth and breadth and
have different experiences and
personalities to them. And clients will
sign off on that and then we get going
uh this. So now we're moved to the
invent stage. And in the invent stage,
we do really two things. You can look at
this as, you know, two layers of our
process. And I I think the second layer
is probably what makes us quite unique
in the marketplace. And it it's the
result of millions of dollars of of of
R&D on our part. So the first thing is
no surprise to anyone, we we work with,
you know, creative individuals
and we don't use this this will be
contrarian. We don't use large
brainstorming sessions. I did when I
first started the company. I used
freelancers. I used brains large
brainstorming groups. And along the way
through some analysis, we really
discovered that that was not really
working for us that actually the names
were coming from employees
and from small groups. And so we've
moved our process to at least two or
three small teams of two people. And
each of those teams, so let's say we,
you know, on on significant projects, we
always use three teams. Uh, and each
team gets a different briefing. One team
knows everything about the project, but
the other teams don't. We'll replace if
we're working for Microsoft, the second
team thinks they're working for Apple. I
mean, they know it's disguise. We're not
keeping this from anyone. And then the
third team, we take it out of computers.
And, you know, they might be naming a
bicycle or a car or something like that.
What we're trying to do is uh open up
the coffers of creativity uh for for
this. And so when people are working on
what they know is not the real
assignment, they are now free to make
all kinds of mistakes. And so most of
our names have come out of the second or
third team because they're Yeah. Yeah, I
think the process at some point I I will
uh hopefully write a either a a good
article on this or maybe even a book,
but this process would work for I think
a lot of things. I I I know I know it
would. All right. Now, what's that
second layer that I talked about? Well,
we have made significant investments in
this area of linguistics and cognitive
science. Um and it's in two ways. one
building proprietary knowledge. So we
know through through research that we
funded an extensive amount about an area
in language called or linguistics called
sound symbolism. So what are the sounds
of the 26 letters of the alphabet and
what do they do? How do they evoke
things? Well, it turns out that that
that each of those letters sends out a
signal that that creates a certain sort
of vibration, if you will, or or
experience. Now,
there's been research on that over the
years, but there were some gaps and we
decided to to fill this. And we, you
know, over the years we've had a very
good relationship with Stanford
University with their department of
linguistics with, you know, we we've
hired PE linguists from MIT, from
Berkeley. We have a linguistic
internship here. I actually just ran
this number uh preparing for for this
discussion.
We have employed over four decades now
linguists, most of them PhDs, some of
them contracts, some of them actual
employees. Well, that's a lot of
intellectual knowledge. So, we we really
have what I call a linguistic engine
here. And then we now have an operating
network of um I I just checked on this
figure yesterday. Uh we have 108
linguists in 76 countries that help us.
Some of them do creative work. Others uh
w will do just the analysis of of names
uh for us. So now we have that creative
framework. We have creative teams
working on this. Now we're tapping into
databases that have, you know, over
18,000 small word units technically
called morphines. And so we also can tap
in from a sound standpoint. I, you know,
what are what are the what are the
sounds of reliability? What are the
sounds of aliveness? Um, and and so with
Sonos, by the way, we wanted, you know,
things that are somewhat noisy, right?
And so S is a noisy letter like like um
a Z or or even a V. And so you begin to
set priorities about what letters we're
going to use. And that work from that we
call it, you know, an engineering layer
sort of floats up into the creative
teams. And so it's a a mixture of things
at a certain point in time. All right.
Now, what happens to all that? At a
certain point, usually three to four
weeks into this, we might have two or
three thousand
ideas. I say ideas because they're not
all solutions. They're not all workable.
They may be just beginning ideas,
concepts, and we sift through those. And
now one of the major challenges that we
face and certainly our clients face is
the need to to clear a trademark for it
to be not in conflict with a marketplace
that is you we're almost reaching a
tipping point in terms of difficulty of
clearing names here. Uh and so we have
parallegals here and we have a trademark
attorney and we'll analyze those names.
uh that gets us to a small much smaller
set and then we'll do our linguistic
work with our linguists and we end up
with a set of names to show our clients.
We'll do this twice with our with most
assignments. Sometimes we'll do just one
time depending on timing and budget, but
we really try to get two cycles here.
Partly because humans love to compare,
right? Where you don't if you're looking
for a house, you don't just look at the
first house, say, "Okay, let's sign us
up." you you you look and you learn that
we don't need a swimming pool, but we
need do need a view. It's the same with
names. And so we get feedback from our
clients and sometimes that's a
co-creative process where a client will
come up with a word or a solution and
we'll then run that through our our uh
screening mechanisms for them. And that
and that's really the process. And the
the final phase is implementing. Let's
actually pause at that because I have so
much I want to talk about with this
second step and but we'll get to that
step three. Uh there's just this is just
blowing my mind all the things you guys
do here. This is incredible. There's so
many things here that are so un unlike
what I expected. First of all, the
creative folks that are actually coming
up with these names. What are what's
kind of like the background of these
people? Who are these who are these
people? Yeah. So the fundamental quality
is they're going to be curious and
they're going to be hardworking. Thi
this is and hopefully uh and this is
hard to screen for but you know uh lower
egos. This is unlike
the advertising business which I came
from, right? six years at in in a large
agency where a a creative person or a
copywriter can think about something and
come in with three or four alternatives,
right, in terms of a headline or body
copy and that might be refined a little
bit and and maybe sent back to the
drawing boards alto together, but it
it's a relatively
simple process, right? Uh and no no
disrespect uh intended there. here. I
can't just uh sit down and say, "Okay,
well, you know, we're naming a new car
here, and so I'm going to I'm going to
generate a hundred names, and and you
generate 100 names, and something will
fall out that that just that that won't
those names will not there's not enough
in in that list to clear through our
screens of legal screens, our linguistic
screens. And remember, we start with a
creative framework and and and uh
criteria that the names need need to
meet. So, we're looking for people who
can churn out a lot of work and when
that's rejected,
they just keep going. So, we look for
tenacious people. Right now, we have,
and we'll probably get to this later,
but we have software here that helps
people uh uh generate names. not really
maybe 5 years down the road it'll
actually spit out solutions but now it's
helping us to generate ideas and
directions and what I you know you know
sound symbolism uh ideas um uh word unit
prefixes suffixes things like that so so
it's relatively easy for anyone that
works here to develop a list of two or
30 hundred names over a three or 4 day
period where do we find these people um
more who are writers from uh you know
newspaper reporters because they have to
work fast their stories get rejected.
people who might have written a novel.
Um uh we have hired people from agencies
o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o
o o over over o over over the years they
work a little less effectively than
others who have a speech writer uh from
you know I I wrote speeches in
Washington DC uh those people have to
work hard crank out a lot of material
get rejected candidate says I don't like
this start over those are more resilient
people that's where they come it's not
it's not easy to find these people it
really it really isn't Uh, let me just
throw out here. I'm gonna ask you after
we go through this process what people
that don't have the resources and time
to do this what they should do to come
up with a good name. I'm just going to
let people know as they're listening
because because I imagine many people
are wondering, but let's not go there
yet. Okay. How long does this process
usually take? What's like the ideal
length a company should expect when they
want to come up with an amazing name?
Uh, for us, the ideal length is is
pretty is pretty short. It's eight
weeks. uh for larger corporate projects
where you have boards and a little more
politicking to do and a little few more
presentations. Um it's a it's a
three-month uh turn and sometimes by the
time they approve things and and clear
it's a it's a four month u process.
Okay, cool. So eight weeks mostly if
you're a big company with a lot of red
tape you have to work through then
longer. Um okay this point you made
about a three different teams with
different in almost uh context is so
interesting. So say let's use windsurf
as an example which is an amazing name
killing it uh that you guys helped come
up with. So is the idea there? Okay,
here's we're naming this uh IDE AI IDE.
One of the teams is told no, you're
building a bicycle, but here's all the
here's all the same brief, but it's a
bicycle. And then another team's built
you're building a I don't know lap like
I don't know something nontechnical
essentially, right? Yes. Like a cup. Say
more about that. That is amazing because
and you're finding that most of the best
names come from the groups that aren't
build. Let's name an amazing AI ID. This
is a good example. So, so in technology,
um, there there are some things that
that if someone hands you a new phone
and you look at it's tangible and it's
got a shape and color, things like that,
easier to name, but but you know, the
the the name of Windsurf before it was
Windsurf was codium, right? And so, so
it's all about a a type of code or a
process for coding that's intangible.
And even though we do an awful lot of
technology work, it is still hard for us
to kind of really get a hold of what
that is, right? So, so our rule here is
if there's something that is intangible
like that, we have to make it tangible.
And sometimes we do that not by not by
giving a team and sometimes it's an
individual the assignment to create
ideas for the brand itself but to just
dive into a particular context. And in
this case with Windsurf it was this this
is about sort of flow about giving
people that are coding something uh much
more of a flow process a you know a
smoother process a more dynamic process.
So
in that case, one team was just given
the task of we want to look at a list of
all the things that can communicate
either in a real word like flow or
metaphorically or in a sport about that
kind of dynamics, that kind of movement.
And there was wind surf sitting on a
list. I mean it's sometimes this is just
it really just that simple of course you
have to have the right framework and you
have to give the right sort of
directions to someone and uh you uh wind
surf for us particularly for me you it
checks all the boxes it's it's a
wonderful image it's an experience
literally a physical experience it's a
compound right two words put together we
know from the research we've invested in
that compounds like PowerBook or
Facebook are multipliers of of of
associations because there's wind and
there's circles around that, you know,
and and then there's surf images around
that. So 1 plus one equals three, right?
It's interesting that when we present
compounds to clients, we we we often get
the comment, well, yeah, it's a little
bit long and it's a compound. I'd rather
have a shorter single word. And then
that that's why we actually did research
on just how effective our compounds so
we we could pass that information along.
We passed that along to the the team at
at that time. Kodium by the way could
not have been a you know more
intelligent, nicer, uh more respectful
team that we've we've worked with. I'm
I'm so glad for for their success. But
we explained to them about the
multiplier effect of compounds. We
showed them imagery that they could use,
right? I mean, it's simple to to execute
on something like that. And so that
that's how that that's how that came
about. I I'll stop there and see if you
need more information or not. Let me
actually follow this thread real quick.
It's going to be kind of a tangent. You
guys have been working with AI companies
more and more recently, which is so
interesting. Is what's what's different
about naming AI products from
traditional products? Non AAI, I guess.
First off, we are working mostly with
engineers um and uh engineers who
haven't,
you know, delved into the world of kind
of creativity and and necessarily
marketing uh and and that that's their
strength and and what we have to do is
we have to sort of balance their
strength with our strength. So there's a
little bit of a challenge there, but I I
think we we deal um pretty well with
that. Secondly, this is the fastest
moving
progressing category I have ever
experienced. And and I I have that
perspective, right? I I I went through
the early days of of the internet,
right? And and and um the worldwide web
and that was moving pretty fast, but the
internet compared to this looks like a a
a daycare school or something like that.
I mean, so, so we're we're challenged by
just keeping up with with developments,
right? Third thing, and this is the
creative challenge here, is that
engineers come to us wanting more
sophisticated names, right? Where they
you're likely to end up with another
kodium or an Anderil or an anthropic.
And we when when we saw this trend of
that AI is going to take off and and it
was an intuitive feeling on my part. I
just you know I could have been wrong. I
said let's let's find out what's going
on here. So so both not only like who's
developing the products but how do
people think about AI? And we did a
series of research. We, you know, I
probably invested $20,000 or so. And we
interviewed consumers in Europe, South
Korea, just picked out one country in
Asia, and in America, uh, and developers
in those three, and they really have
different views. Developers are all
totally positive on it. Okay? They see
the future. They see a big future. Not
too concerned. Some are, but, most
aren't. Consumers are skeptical.
uh worried about it, worried about their
jobs, see the hope in it, those types of
things, but haven't got the handle. So,
Kodium is an example where we said, "We
think what you're doing needs to be much
more tangible and something that people
can grab on to and much more natural as
opposed to a podium." And they listen to
us as simple as that. And and and in
this case, we were right. And by the
way, there's also, I have to say,
there's some luck to this. Windsurf
happened to be available and uh they
they saw it uh right away. Not not not
exactly right away, but it took about a
week going back and forth uh to to to to
select it. So, let me stop there and see
if if that's answers your question.
Absolutely. And it feels like most AI
companies end up having a different name
for their product than their company.
I've noticed this funny trend. Cursor
was any sphere. Bold was stack stack
blitz. Windsurf was kodium. Basically
everyone
when does it make sense to change your
name? Windsurf just officially changed
their entire company name to windsurf
from kodium. It was just a product. So
let me just ask you that when does it
make sense? Feels like a huge deal and a
very challenging thing to do. It is
challenging and it and the larger you
are and the more customer base you have
it it becomes uh you know a significant
uh uh project.
So the first thing is you you have to
you have to make an argument that it's
worth the change, right? That that we're
going to be better off by changing our
name. So there's there's a couple
situations where you want to you want to
change your name. First one is let's
let's focus first on startups.
Startups get going early. They you know
they they get into Y Combinator or
something like that. They're raising
money and they just need a name. And
although they know what they're doing
and that may change by 10 or 15 degrees,
uh it's almost like we just got to have
a name. I mean, and and that is the
absolute expression I hear from when
when a startup calls and says we want to
change our name. You know, we started
off a a year and a half ago. We just
need a new name for the documents and so
we chose X, right? And it's not a very
good name. So that's that's example
number one. Number two is the company
actually has, you know, pivoted, right?
And so the name that they have no longer
really
reflects who who they are or who they're
becoming and which makes that name
ineffective. And the third is that a a
company has merged and and it's time now
to to to create a new start and reflect
to the marketplace that we're we're
we're new now maybe bigger uh we have
but certainly we have more capabilities
and we want you to know about it and
because of that we're changing our name
to blank which reflects those
capabilities at some some level. I'm
excited to have Andrew Luo joining us
today. Andrew is CEO of OneKema, one of
our longtime podcast sponsors. Welcome,
Andrew. Thanks for having me, Lenny.
Great to be here. So, what is new with
One Schkeema? I know that you work with
some of my favorite companies like Ramp
and Vanta and Watershed. I heard you
guys launched a new data intake product
that automates the hours of manual work
that teams spend importing and mapping
and integrating CSV and Excel files.
Yes. So, we just launched the 2.0 of one
schema file feeds. We've rebuilt it from
the ground up with AI. We saw so many
customers coming to us with teams of
data engineers that struggled with the
manual work required to clean messy
spreadsheets. File feeds 2.0 allows
non-technical teams to automate the
process of transforming CSV and Excel
files with just a simple prompt. We
support all of the trickiest file
integrations, SFTP, S3, and even email.
I can tell you that if my team had to
build integrations like this, how nice
would it be to take this off our road
map and instead use something like one
schema? Absolutely, Lenny. We've heard
so many horror stories of outages from
even just a single bad record in
transactions, employee files, purchase
orders, you name it. Debugging these
issues is often like finding a needle in
a haststack. One schema stops any bad
data from entering your system and
automatically validates your files,
generating error reports with the exact
issues in all bad files. I know that
importing incorrect data can cause all
kinds of pain for your customers and
quickly lose their trust. Andrew, thank
you so much for joining me. If you want
to learn more, head on over to
onskeema.co. co that's oneskeema.co.
I want to come back to this linguist
piece which I know is really unique to
the way you guys operate and it's so
interesting. So you employed you've said
over 250 linguists over the course of
your business career. This linguist
step, the way you described it is
they're not coming up with names.
They're more kind of like a filter for
here's all the names we've come up with.
Here's the ones that are good
linguistically. Is that right? Or is
that team also suggesting names? Yeah,
some some of the people there on
particular uh depending on the
assignment will actually help us create
uh names for for sure. Right. And so we
have linguists here and then we have in
the network we have linguists and and
those linguists are contracts uh to to
us not full-time employees. So so
there's a little bit of both but the
preponderance of their work in our
linguistic network is to evaluate names.
Not only just is it does it mean
something negative or positive, but are
there cultural implications to it,
political implications or even things
that a natural disaster that would have
happened somewhere that that
you know no one here would know about.
Even if we had I if we this was in Italy
and there was a you know a bridge or a
flood that killed a lot of people.
someone that speaks Italian very well
here,
say at Berkeley University, but has
lived here for 20 years, wouldn't know
about that. And we we we don't we don't
want anything linguistically that would
slow our clients down. And so that's why
we've invested in building this network.
We have a woman that runs the network
for so it's not an insignificant um uh
facet of our business that we have to
run and manage. Is there a name you love
that didn't pass the linguistic filter
that ended up being like, "Oh
that's a really bad name in this
culture." Yeah. Well, it it happens uh
frequently uh where we will find
something that that isn't really
terrible, but it's s it's worrisome to
us. Um it's interesting you know uh
cultures like um Australian uh or in
people in Austral they have a lot of
interesting expressions right and so we
do find things that you know this sounds
like it's a certain kind of you know
shrimp and things like that and we
eliminate those things and then we find
things that have sort of sexual
connotations we eliminate those I would
say it happens you every third or fourth
project, we will find something that we
will eliminate and never show the client
and something you love. You're like,
"Okay, I guess we can show that one."
That's true. That happens. It does. It
does. You also said this really
interesting uh thing about how every
letter of the alphabet has a vibrance
and an experience. Can you give a few
examples of that? I know you're not the
person doing that work specifically, but
just what are some letter feelings?
Well, well, I yeah, I I the the work is
from the linguist, but I'm at this point
I'm I'm pretty adept in it. So, let you
know, let let's look at um I'll start
with the letter V because it it is it is
so illustrative um of of what this is
about.
V from our research that we've done is
the most alive and vibrant sound in the
English alphabet. And that's whether you
were you were born in Rome or in you
know uh Salelito Cal California. Um so
if you know that if if you know that as
you go around the world uh there are
going to be some exceptions to it. It's
going to have that vibrancy. So look at
Corvette. I mean that they probably
didn't know about V, but it's a perfect
name for a car that's fast and has a you
know big engine that roars. Think about
Viagra.
same idea. Um, and there's been
surprises to us. Uh, B, the the sound of
the letter B is is one of the most
reliable sounds in the English alphabet.
That was one of our rationale, by the
way, for Blackberry. Right. We be
because that's another example of a
client who thought we were I mean, the
the founder actually said, I I thought
the people at Lexicon were crazy when
they presented BlackBerry. And we said,
well, let's let's stop and look at some
of the assets here. First off, you know,
black colors technology. Yes, not
everybody knows the word berry, but we
have those two B's. We talked about the
nature of a compound. And all of a
sudden, people at least lean forward to
consider it as opposed to rejecting it
to too fast. Um, so so those are just
two examples. I mentioned Z that in
Azure, that's noisy letter. Um, uh, X is
fast and crisp as a sound. Um, and of
course there's semantic value to all
these letters, too. X is about
innovation from from aircraft to
computers. And so you you have to look
at the semantics of it and the sound
symbol of it. This is so fascinating. I
could listen to this stuff all day. Uh,
just thinking about Versel with the V,
but very aligns with what they're trying
to do. Just like very strong opinionated
Yes. way of working and GMO he feels
like a V a V person he is and there's an
example of a group that had a lot of
confidence right and and what their
product is is very innovative and so we
had permission there to create something
new because Verscell is a coin solution
right but notice that we put some very
simple easy to process things together
there or ver ver you in this case. So we
have you know invinovers right truth and
wine things like that you have uh verde
green so so very familiar and then
there's cell like accelerate something
which is really what they do they
accelerate a client's performance so
that was a relatively easy name for us
to present and for the we were excited
about and for them to sort of um grasp
um by the way That's uh that's known as
processing fluency which is um when you
when you think about how the brain
processes information. Um we're told by
a number of cognitive science that our
brains are a little bit on the lazy
side. We we we don't like complex things
and and so we really strive to make all
of our solutions relatively easy for so
so for the brain to process. So so it
wants it leans in towards them as
opposed to um I'm too busy. I'm walking
past that. Um and so names that are
complicated are uh it's a liability and
and we really avoid that. But forcel
perfect uh fluency. Okay, let's go back
actually to the three steps. So, we
covered two. I went I took us on a long
tangent to dive into a lot of the stuff
you shared with the the second step
which you call invent. So, it's
essentially the three steps are uh was
it create which yeah it's identify
identify and and I use the word invent
with intention because it's more than
creative, right? And then the final
thing is implement. Uh now for us, we're
not a design firm. uh we're really
focused on brand names and and the
nomenclature that supports the name. But
so for us implement is helping the
client team uh if they choose for us to
help them with the presentations as it
goes up the chain, right?
uh a as it to help them sort of write a
longer rationale for why this these
names if they're presenting three names
to the president of their company or or
the CMO why these names make a lot of
sense and and to help them we develop
what we call prototypes. So we'll we'll
put the name on a baseball cap on a
t-shirt. We'll put the name in a mockup
ad in the Wall Street Journal.
something's very positive like because
of you know um because of Proctor and
Gamble's new blank product um PNG shares
you know gained 10% this year so that
executives can see the the lift that
that name can have our implementation uh
phase for them and we also do uh
consumer research or customer research
at that stage and we do that probably
about 50% of the time um on our on our
projects where We're going out and we're
really talking to their customers and
and putting the names in a series of
drills.
Drills that make them not the marketing
person for the day, but we're really
we're really making these customers feel
that this is a new brand and then we're
asking about expectations, right? We're
we're seeing how these names fire their
imagination. And that's the most
important thing in in research, not is
the name popular, uh, are they
comfortable with it, does it fit to
concept. If if you're asking people is
this fit to concept, you are inevitably
always going to get a descriptive name.
you make such a good point about how you
need to arm the people working with you
with uh ammo to win over other folks
internally because if the person working
with you is on board then and the name
is bold and not an obvious winner. Uh I
could see it being important to be like
here's what you will should show them to
help them see the story and the mockups
and all that. Yes. And what's really
important is to help their management
see this in the context of the
marketplace and their customers.
This is a very human thing, but people
want their boss to be happy, right? They
they they want to be okay with their
boss. And so they're thinking about, I
don't know if my boss would like this,
you know, he's more conservative or
she's more conservative. We try in a,
you know, very diplomatic way to say
this has nothing really in the end to do
with your boss. It has to do with the
marketplace. Well, you know, that's easy
for me to say because I'm not working at
a PNG or an Intel, right? But we really
try to give that advice uh for because
it is about being successful in the
marketplace, right? And so we first off,
we try to separate the clients that we
work with. We we really want to work
with clients that play to win, that that
want to win, that not not just want to
not not lose in in a marketplace. And so
we try to encourage our direct clients
to sort of lead the process to to really
say, "Hey, I I if a if a manager or a
CMO or president says, look, we're the
team that's going to execute on this and
we believe in this.
uh we can make this where they usually
rally around it, right? They they they
usually do. Um but if you're just taking
names up to a manager uh and saying what
do you think it's there's a different
outcome often. So we like to be in that
implementation phase because we have so
much experience and and and usually
credibility wi with with people. And you
said that you come up with three to
4,000 names. That's the top of the
funnel. Yeah. And and ju just to be, you
know, clarify that it's it's ideas,
directions. Uh it's it's not complete
ready to ship names. Yeah. Not ready to
ship names at all. Yeah. It's there's a
this is a very inefficient process and
and a little chaotic. So in that list of
3,000 names is probably
potential diamonds that have to be sort
of, you know, fractured and examined. I
I really want to see just like a
documentary of this process at some
point. This is the closest we're going
to get for now, but this is so
interesting. I want to ask about how you
would approach this if you're just a
startup that doesn't have the time or
resource to do this. But before I do
that, is there anything else around the
process that you guys go through with
clients that you think is important to
share or that you think might surprise
people? I think we've covered it. I do.
Okay. Great. Awesome. Okay. So, most
people listening to this are there's a
lot of founders, a lot of PMs on product
teams. They're working on a new feature.
They're about to launch a product. They
got accepted into YC and they're about
to like launch a product. Then they
have, I don't know, let's say they have
a couple weeks. Got to come up with a
name. What should they do? So, the first
thing I do is to say, okay, let's forget
about developing the name for right now.
And I will have them, and I think this
is a good exercise for anybody. We do it
here internally when we think about our
our business. So I say just because most
of this now because of COVID is on video
um and I'll say just draw a a shape of a
diamond on a piece of paper in front of
you and I said on the top of that
diamond put the word win right you know
how do you define winning is really I
said now on that other next corner of
the diamond what do you have to win
write that down on the bottom what do
you need to win and then on that final
angle on the left hand side. What do you
have to say to win? Okay. Then I said,
now let's go all the way to that final
thing of what do you have to say to win?
And that's where you just get people
thinking about, well, you know what we
really have here is and we're better
than this and and I and then I'll just
say, okay, now what you want to take
that because this is really should be
about experience and behavior. How do
you want to behave in the marketplace?
And how do you want the marketplace to
behave towards you? And what kind of
experience are you creating? Because and
and then they'll start, you know,
talking a little bit. I I'll say now you
just need to probe on that. You need to
keep going. You need to look at
metaphors because this is about
experience. Black. And I'll just give
them some of our examples that we've
talked about. We blackberry.
It it it it says to the marketplace
they're not like the other guys. I mean
think of something like Google
versus infosek, right? Google is an
experience. Google says I don't know
what these guys are going to do but it's
not this practical mundane infosek,
right? And that's what attracts people.
And so I'll do a little coaching like
that and and then I that that usually
kind of sets them free and they're now
thinking about it not as a word which
has maybe limited value but as creating
experience which has the potential for
unlimited value. Okay. So let me try to
reflect this back for folks. So they so
the advice is create draw a triangle. So
you're coming up with a name draw
triangle at the top win. Yes. at the
bottom left. Was it how do you win?
Yeah. What? What you So, so the diamond
is, you know, diamond two triangle my
mind. Okay. Got it. Diamond. Great. And
so on that next angle there on the the
right side is what do you have to win
already, right? Because they they
wouldn't be, you know, either in a Y
combinator or getting some seed money if
they didn't have something to win,
right? And so and that's and and often
people startups don't appreciate how
much they actually do have to win
because they're so busy and so stressed
on on what they're doing. And then what
what do they need to win? And then
finally, what do you need to say, right?
and and and and then back up to you know
defining what is winning to us which by
the way uh if we you know we start with
that question usually on a assignment
that we've been awarded and if we're in
a room with five people all five people
have a different you know um definition
of what their definition of that company
winning and that's good to kind of sort
that out because we can move down
different different avenues from a
creative standpoint. Okay, let's just
make sure people have these phrases
because this is awesome. And I imagine
many people are going to be taking notes
and like, cool, I'm gonna do this. I
hope so. Say the four points of the
diamond again just so folks can write it
all down. At the top of the diamond is
uh just the word win and underneath that
is how do we define winning for us as a
company, right? And and that that can
start off being simple like, you know,
we want to be the dominant player here,
but you really have to work at that.
What does that really mean, right? The
second uh on that right hand uh tip
there of the diamond is what do we have
to win? What are we doing now that makes
us a winner? Then we go down to the
final u the bottom of the diamond and
it's what do we need to win? There could
be technical things there people talk
about talent and resources. Um often
there they'll say you know we need a a
good name. We always correct that it's
not the good name it's the right name.
And then finally is what do we need to
say? And that's where I say that's where
you want to spend some time in really
thinking about all the things you need
to say that you can say or you even like
to say which maybe right now you can't
say but you want a name that actually is
going to have the flexibility as to when
you can say that it still works. And
that gets them into behavior and
experience. And that usually launches a
really good um a good discussion uh with
founders uh in internally. And so in the
cont when you say have to win the what
you're thinking about there is what is
it that you have that will help you win
and then what is it you need to have in
order to win and and all companies are
in that same situation. They they have a
bunch of stuff but they need I mean you
know a PNG might say well we need a you
know a good distributor. Okay. All
right. Well, that's that put that on the
list, right? Then you might say, well,
we need an when it gets to what do we
have to say? We have to say the right
things so that a distributor is
interested in us. And then that that
then you go down sort of an avenue
there. Well, what what is that, right?
And it it all it should if you work at
it, it's not this is not a a one-hour
exercise. It it may be an you know,
exercise repeated over the next four or
five days. Okay. Okay. So, you have this
diamond and then the idea is just sit
and put names down in a Google doc,
let's say. Yeah. And then you start but
but uh there is this
in and maybe it's naive. I I guess
that's probably the best word for this
is that because I do hear this all the
time. Hey, we you know, we we've worked
at this. we got a list of uh 200 names
and you know they but they don't
we we don't think there's something
there and I'll say well 200 names is not
enough right
get get to a thousand500
names and directions don't evaluate them
just just generate names and directions
and ideas and then have a meeting and
don't evaluate but speculate you know
what could we do with this name what's
the potential here?
Uh the the there's a lot of over
evaluation in uh our industry, right? Um
it it's makes sense. It's you know, we
survive as humans because we figure out
what's wrong with uh this picture,
right? Uh if if I want to cross the
street, is it safe to cross the street?
What's going on? Those kinds of things.
You have to counter that. you have to
say, let let's just suspend judgment for
a while and and let's let's do an
exercise here where we take these 10
names that we think might work and what
are we going to do with it? Because it's
how you execute. Um, you know, going
back to wind surf, if as we showed them
pictures of people wind surfing and
waves and things, if they said, "Ah, you
know, that just doesn't work for us at
all. I'm very uncomfortable with Well,
then it's not their name, right?
uh uh but they leaned into it. Okay, I
can see this. It's e, you know, easy for
us to execute. It's dynamic. It's
different. So, so that's why we build
these prototypes for people. And that's
what
I think the best advice I can give to a
whether it's a startup or someone
starting a new cookie company is it's
not just a list of 200 names. It's uh
you know 10 or 15 lists of 200 names and
it's thinking about what do we have to
say here? What behavior? How do we want
people to feel in the marketplace about
us? I imagine with Google people felt
relief that it wasn't a descriptive name
that you know that there was something
new out there in the marketplace. Yeah.
Info seek that's such a descriptive name
now that I think about it. Yes. Okay. So
one more question along these lines. And
so say you have a list of let's say
2,000 or a thousand names. There's this
tension between choosing something like
as a person that is doing them
themselves. Your advice is choose
something bold, not something
descriptive. You won't know it when you
see it. Very hard to do obviously when
you're doing it by yourself. any just
advice for not, you know, not losing
sight of that piece and just throwing
out things that feel too scary, finding
a name that's actually bold as you
suggest. First off, we we this is pure
human psychology. We really humans only
pay attention to what is new or what is
different, I should say, right? Uh um so
if if you're looking at shoes and
they're all black black and then the
next pair of shoes is red, that's the
first thing you focus on. And so that
usually gives people permission. You
know, they'll say, "Okay, I I get that."
So So
look for what is really different
between the names that you have on your
list, but also what's different from
what's out in the marketplace, right?
uh well you know then you get a client
like Microsoft saying well Azure is
different u there's going to be a lot of
cloud stuff and it there's a relevant
point there Azure is blue and so
there's a slight logical connection that
I think gave them more permission to
move forward with it frankly but
it it listen this this is not an easy
task I mean that's that's why we're in
this business and and why I felt we
should be specialized because if you
start doing design and or advertising or
uh you know
other things you you you can't have the
the intellectual engine you can't
acquire the intellectual engine that
that we have. So, I know it's difficult,
but it can be done and you just have to
give yourself some time.
But stop evaluating, suspend judgment,
and speculate. That that's that's my
number one advice to to people trying to
do this on their own. Now, how can you
get help?
You can you can talk to your employees,
but it's not so much what do you think
of this name? It's what do you think
this name could do for us? That's a much
better question, right? If you go out
and talk to friends who don't work for
your company, um there's a there's a fun
drill that I suggest. I said, "Listen,
go out to them and say, they'll know
what you're doing and say, you know
what, we just have a new competitor and
their name is blank. What do you think
about that?" What happens there is
you're not asking them to give you an
opinion of to evaluate a name. You're
asking them then what does that name do
for you? The information you're getting
is that that name they're telling you
what that name does for them. What how
it helps them to imagine which is a
fundamental role of of any name.
Slight tangent but I'm going to go to
our kind of research. Um we do mostly
quantitative research now but for years
we did uh qualitative work and we still
do uh but
what we found in we were always looking
for I'll say it this way we were always
looking for this answer from consumers.
If a consumer said well I don't really
know much about that new product but I
know that they're not like the other
guys. That's when we knew we had a good
name.
Uh be
because they were now what what happened
there. I mean the technical term that we
use is we've that name will create a
predisposition to consider this product
because they're not like the other guys
as opposed to I already have something
like that. I don't I don't I'm busy. I
don't need another one of those things.
I need something new and different and
hopefully better. That's awesome. That's
a good reminder. There's a quote that I
found of yours that's exactly along
these lines. If your team is comfortable
with the name, chances are you don't
have the name yet. Yes. Yeah. And we and
by the way, the opposite of that is we
look for polarization. Uh we we we look
for tension in a team about arguing
about these things. Um because we think
that polarization is a sign of strength
in the word. And interesting story, the
person who taught me that
honestly was Andy Grove over the Pentium
name because and I learned a lot from
him. I always say this. I I you know I I
just was very fortunate um to to work
with him on on Pentium and Seeon and a
few other things.
But when we when we went to you know an
executive committee to present Pentium
and by the way internally one of the
names that and makes sense here
descriptive bunch of engineers prochip
hey it's professional it's premium uh
and it's chipped so it should be prochip
right okay so um Andy had me give a
presentation about the strengths of this
thing and he said he said now let me
tell you why I think this is the right
name he said because I see the
polarization here in amongst people
there's this you know prochip over here
there's the Pentium thing he said that
tells me there's energy for Pentium here
and he said that's why I think we should
go with it and I've never forgotten that
and and so we do look for that u and
when we tell that story people say you
know you're right there is I mean we are
arguing about this and there is an
intensity with the name and and that's
what you want. You don't want to go out
into the marketplace, this very
competitive marketplace regardless of
the category with something that doesn't
have a level of boldness or intensity.
That was an amazing story. Uh just
again, so kind of a a tip here is if
half your team or I don't know some
percentage of your team hates it, some
percentage of your team loves it, that's
a good sign. Yeah, it is. It is. Look
for that polarization. That's what we
look for. I also love this tip of asking
people if hey our competitor just
launched they're called Windsurf how
your team reacts if they're just like oh
wow that's a great name I'm I'm
interested in that product that's that's
what you want to look for yes exactly
yeah how important is the com for the
name you come up with I imagine it's
really hard to get these days just what
do you think about domain name when you
think about naming I am so glad you
asked this question because it is at
this point it doesn't really matter at
all the the the com or URL address has
become an area code and whether you're
in 415 or 615 it doesn't really matter
to people and now with AI you know
search that you know SEO is going to be
less important right and and so I I just
think the principle in play here is you
got to get the right name
first and then if you can get the dot
sure go ahead but if you can't there's
ways around that. You you know you can
put a a prefix in front of it or a
little word in front of it or after it
or you go to aai or some something like
that. But the the principle in play is
let's get the right name first
for those who really and there are
people who really get hung up on the dot
uh and and they tend to be sort of oer
by the way uh and have in their mind
sort of the hotness of the internet and
having a.com which did did make a
difference 25 years ago but it's 25
years now or 30 right? Um, the good news
is because they're less valuable, you
can typically buy a URL if you negotiate
the right way and have time for 15, 20,
25, $30,000. And, you know, we say, hey,
if you can do that, have fun. I'd put
the $30,000 into marketing. Awesome.
That's reassuring. I imagine many
founders are just like, god damn it,
there's no names available anymore.
Let me zoom out and just ask you this
question as a maybe a closing thought to
our conversation. Say you were just in
an elevator ride with someone and I'm
sure this happens to you of just like,
"Hey, David, I got to come up with a
name. What what's your biggest tip for
coming up with a great name? What would
your answer be?" I'd go back to think
about forget about the word, think about
behavior and experience. And then the
second thing from just a a a creative
help. Um I'm a big believer in
synchronicity. Uh and we try to sort of
force synchronicity here and I'll give
you a couple examples of that. But
there's this idea of connecting sort of
dots, you know, two unrelated ideas
together. And so I'll say, look, if
someone says, well, you know, we're um
we we make uh we make sailboats and I'm
trying to I'm here in Salelo. I guess
that's why I thought about that. But uh
and I I'm trying to create a new a new
name for my company that builds
sailboats.
I would say forget about sailboats. I
would go and pick out some magazines
about hunting
uh or fly flight flying magazines and I
would just look through those, get a
notepad out and and put out words that
you like, things expressions that you
like. So you're you're and then that
synchronicity I said I I would bet you $
five dollar that out of those two
magazines you will get a word that you
never would have thought of but somehow
it would relate
to sailing. That's that connects very
much to your story of how you have these
different teams and the teams that end
up coming up with the winning name are
the ones thinking about a very different
version of that product. Yes. So
interesting. Okay, David, this was
everything I was hoping it'd be. I feel
like we're going to help so many people.
Is there anything that we haven't
covered or that you want to leave
listeners with as a final nugget or
piece of advice or story before we get
to our very exciting lightning round? I
I'm going to emphasize one point, I
think, which is that I I I really would
like the the listeners to really begin
to think about how how valuable a brand
name can be. That it's you're not just
looking for a word, you're looking for
this experience, right? And and if you
get it right, not just a good name, but
the right name, the value is almost
unlimited, right? And so, give yourself
some time, give yourself a budget, uh
give yourself the right resources to do
that. Second thing is, you know, we try
to really be helpful here. And so I am
always uh happy to talk to people um
about where they are in a process and if
we can help or just give them a little
bit of advice. Um and we we schedule,
you know, we call them office hours
here. Um we're judicious about it, but
we we are open to that. Um it's just
playing a longterm game. So I I'd like
to leave that with viewers. Also, we're
about to book out your office hours. I
love that offer. I think a lot of people
are going to take advantage of that.
That is super cool. David, with that,
we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready? Yes, I'm ready.
Here we go. What are two or three books
that you find yourself recommending most
to other people? There's a book called
Resilience which was written by a a a
former Navy Seal that um and it's not
about combat and it's just a tiny bit
about being a SEAL but it is about
overcoming things right and it's about
tenacity and I think you know everybody
in the world we all have challenges and
things and I and I do recommend that um
to people. Second book is uh Andrew
Roberts latest book on Winston
Churchill. Winston Churchill is really
one of my heroes. Uh he was one of the
most unusual provocative statesman uh
politicians of the 20th century. And
here's another person that talk about
tenacity and ups and downs and stick
with it. And so I I do I do like to
recommend that some people just kind of
you know tip their head and said I don't
know it it seems like maybe a boring
book. But but those are two books that I
I Who would ever say that Churchill's
story is boring?
That's absurd.
I think so. I I agree. I agree. It's
absurd. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. He's so
fascinating. Uh there's a recent
documentary I think that uh really
showed me the Yes. the character. Yeah.
Yeah. Incredible. Okay. What's a recent
movie or TV show you've really enjoyed?
For me is the Yellowstone series. Um we
we have we're very fortunate as a
family. We have some property in Montana
and you're living the life. I'm Yeah.
Very Listen, very I can't tell you how
fortunate I am. and and uh and I bought
this property uh 28 years ago, so it was
a lot cheaper then in a snowstorm and it
just felt right. But uh I think
particularly the 1883 that the the
precursor to your I was going to ask if
you saw that because that was
incredible. Yes. And then the after one
1923 which is the postwart 1883 really
gives people a sense of what it took by
those early Americans to to to build a
life in a place like a beautiful place
but a hard tough place like Montana. So
it and it just it's just
phenomenal. Um the person you know
producing and writing those things is
incredibly talented. Taylor Sheridan I
think is his name. Yeah. I love that
like in the story like Montana was the
easy route almost from the the journey
they went on. That's right. It's very
true. Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. Like you
almost don't even need to watch
Yellowstone Yellowstone just starting
with 1883 is how it works. In fact, I
recommend people I say there's three,
but if you really want the the the truth
about the American West, it's it's 1883.
Yeah. I've uh suggested that on this
podcast a bunch actually. So I love that
that's where you went. Next question. Do
you have a favorite product that you
have recently discovered that you really
love? Maybe one you named, maybe not.
Well, I didn't name it, although it's
got a very good name to it. Uh, we are a
whole family. I have two daughters and
and my wife. We're all fly fisherman and
uh last summer. Um, I really b I I
bought this for myself, but I gave it to
my wife, but it was one of those things
was a present for her, but I knew I was
going to use it more. And it's a it's a
Hardy. It's an old British fly rod, but
it's a beautiful rod. It's just perfect
for the big rivers of of Montana. So,
that's my my favorite purchase. That's
the first fly fishing rod of the
podcast. Excellent choice. Next
question. Do you have a favorite life
motto that you often find yourself
coming back to sharing with friends or
family? I do. I do. And I it's it's a
little longer. So, so I wrote it I I
have it written here somewhere, but it's
um it's the the quote from um Te
Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia Arabia
here. And if I can find it, I should
should be Yeah. Uh I think it's a
wonderful quote. So, I think hopefully
your viewers will like this. Here's what
he said. He said, uh, "All men dream,
but not equally. Those who dream by
night in the dusty recesses of their
minds wake in the day to find that it
was vanity. But the dreamers of the day
are dangerous men. For they may not on
their for for they may act on their
dreams with open eyes to make them
possible. I I just I read that years ago
and it just it it uh it hit me pretty
hard. So So yeah, that is an amazing
quote. It makes me think about the the
quote about the the man in the arena.
Yes. Yeah. It's the same it's same idea
just a little different. Yeah. Yeah. And
I also think Lawrence of Arabia is a
fascinating per person uh to to to what
what he did. So inspiring in some ways.
Yeah. An amazing movie. Okay. Final
question. Uh let me just try this. Is
there a name that you didn't name that
you just like, wow, that was an amazing
name. I wish I had come up with that
name. I I'll tell you there is one name.
Um and it's DreamWorks. Um, I I think
it's a wonderful name and it's somewhat
of a somewhat ironic that the
entertainment industry in general has
pretty mundane names, right? So, so you
have all these talented people and yet
when you look at the the names of
production studios, movie houses, um,
you know, Comcast, uh, you know, things
like that, it's just it's very mundane.
Here's DreamWorks.
Just like Sonus, check all the boxes.
Compound Dream. I you know, you you
expect something great from DreamWorks.
They've created an experience. The
experience of dreaming in a movie. I
think it's a wonderful name. I wish I'd
done it. That's such a cool answer.
David, thank you so much for doing this.
This is incredible. I learned a ton as I
imagined. I feel like a lot of people
are going to have a much easier time
thinking about approaching this topic.
Well, well, I certainly hope so. I do.
It's been very very enjoyable. Uh uh
very thoughtful. Um and uh I have
nothing but respect for the way you you
do this. Uh and the talent that you
have. So uh very fortunate um uh to that
we've come together and we we live in
the same place. So So maybe we can get
together for a cup of coffee or
something. Northern California for the
win. Uh thank you so much for being
here. You're very welcome. Bye everyone.
Take care.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.